300-premium-addons/600-certificate-builder.mdx, before:

---
title: Certificate Builder
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Learn how to create Certificate templates and Assign on the courses. Provide certificates to encourage students to complete the course.
---

You can now assign different certificate templates to various courses. It provides certificates to encourage students to complete the course.

<Embed>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnH5icBWyds&ab_channel=Masteriyo</Embed>

### How to Use?

1. Install [Masteriyo Pro](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/installation#installing-masteriyo-lms-pro-version)
2. Activate the [Certificate Builder Add-on](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/activate-masteriyo-addons)
3. Go to your **Dashboard** and navigate **Masteriyo**-> **Certificates**

![navigate-to-certificates-and-add-new](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5462876c-fc82-4edb-9dc4-113dd80d2d9e)

4. Click on **Add New Certificate**
5. Choose a **blank template** or one of the **starter templates**

![Add Certificate Masteriyo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24367265/193017034-99922535-a922-471a-aac0-5c65045c7d55.png)

![available-certificate-templates](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6c576a2f-1249-4e91-9e25-b55c2efb2f8f)

**Blank Slate:** Create a certificate template from scratch using the Gutenberg editor.

**Certificate Samples:** You’ll find multiple certificate samples; if you like any of them, you can use the one you want. 

6. **Create** or **modify** the Certificate Template to fit your needs.    

You can click on fullscreen icon to edit the certificate. 

![toggle-full-screen-for-editing-certificates](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f85a057b-c878-4e31-b1f2-44a95d93f7fb)

<Callout>
  {" "} 
  **Note:** During the creation or modification of the certificate templates, you
  will get two default Masteriyo Gutenberg blocks for dynamically pulling the values.
  **Student Name:** The student's name is automatically generated on the certificate.
  **Course Title:** The course's title is automatically generated on the certificate.{" "}
</Callout>

![student-name-and-course-title-block](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a5ab5a26-bda7-43c9-9d79-be5ea13d794e)

#### Use Custom Fonts on Certificate [Pro]

By default, Masteriyo will have multiple fonts that you can use to customize the certificate. To change the fonts, click on the block and you’ll see **Typography > Font** on the left. From the dropdown, you can choose any fonts you wish.   

If you don’t find the font of your choise, you can also use the custom font. For that, follow the steps below:  
  1. Navigate to **Masteriyo > Certificate**.  
  2. Click on the setting icon on the top right corner, and you will see multiple certificate settings:  

![navigate-to-certificate-settings](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/33b90a33-9efd-41cb-903f-d2cb636eca24)

**Install Certificate Fonts:** It lets you install additional fonts that you can use for certificate  

**Install Custom Fonts:** It lets you upload and use custom fonts that are not available with the plugin. Click the Upload button to upload the zip file of custom fonts.   

![upload-custom-fonts](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d30177da-2be7-4435-a892-79fb69f014c2)

Click on **Save Setting** and go back to certificate builder.   

You can see the cutom fonts you just uploaded  under **Typography > Fonts**. Select to use on your certificate.

![custom-fonts-available-in-editor](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/efef1fa0-1d52-40c3-b57d-57ad5290c1d1)


![Edit-Certificate-Simple-One-Masteriyo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24367265/193017246-f8631f1e-4397-4dc0-b022-1a61fb34560f.png)

Once you create the **Certificate template**, You will need to assign that template to your specific courses. Follow the instruction below to assign Certificates on courses.

7. Go to your **Dashboard** and navigate **Masteriyo > Courses**
8. **Select** and **Edit** the course on which you want to add a Certificate
9. Navigate **Settings > Certificate**
10. Click on the toggle button to activate the Certificate
11. Select the Certificate for the Course
12. Click on the **Update**

![assign certificate to the courses-masteriyo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24367265/193017309-05112f5a-755a-43f5-a117-43b08d28111b.png)

### Send Certificate via email after Course Completion

![send-certificate-via-email](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/bb0ad1fd-f88a-4de3-8b6e-ad90258f4000)

![attach-certificate-to-email](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/def6b2c1-8303-4826-b33b-72b6c0bfdd02)


Enabling this option will send the certificate directly to the users email after the course is completed.

### Allows to Share Certificate of Your Course  

To let users share certificates of the course, you can enable Share Certificate through Course **Settings > Certificate** and update the course. 

![enable-share-certificate](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18525d77-ebda-4efd-8cec-f0a19f60c1b3)


### QR Verification for Certificates

You can create a QR verification for the certificates you have created. For this, follow the steps below:

- Go to Dashboard > Certificate > Select the required Certificate for editing.
- You can find places on the Cetificate where you can add new blocks. Click on '+'.
- Search for QR and click on QR Code.

![add-qr-in-certificate](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/1f2693cc-332e-48a2-9416-75b0069e50bf)

Now, once the course is completed, the users can download their certificates in which the QR is available.

![download-certificate](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/9d08c93b-851a-4e14-b21c-561d8c9d80ac)

![QR-on-certificate](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/5d9ca442-e111-4f77-9634-40c74cc68ada)

Commit message:

Replaced old image with new

300-premium-addons/600-certificate-builder.mdx, after:

---
title: Certificate Builder
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Learn how to create Certificate templates and Assign on the courses. Provide certificates to encourage students to complete the course.
---

You can now assign different certificate templates to various courses. It provides certificates to encourage students to complete the course.

<Embed>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnH5icBWyds&ab_channel=Masteriyo</Embed>

### How to Use?

1. Install [Masteriyo Pro](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/installation#installing-masteriyo-lms-pro-version)
2. Activate the [Certificate Builder Add-on](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/activate-masteriyo-addons)
3. Go to your **Dashboard** and navigate **Masteriyo > Certificates**
4. Click on **Add New Certificate**

![navigate-to-certificates-and-add-new](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5462876c-fc82-4edb-9dc4-113dd80d2d9e)


5. Choose a **blank template** or one of the **starter templates**

![available-certificate-templates](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6c576a2f-1249-4e91-9e25-b55c2efb2f8f)

  - **Blank Slate:** Create a certificate template from scratch using the Gutenberg editor.

  - **Certificate Samples:** You’ll find multiple certificate samples; if you like any of them, you can use the one you want. 

6. **Create** or **modify** the Certificate Template to fit your needs.    

You can click on fullscreen icon to edit the certificate. 

![toggle-full-screen-for-editing-certificates](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f85a057b-c878-4e31-b1f2-44a95d93f7fb)

<Callout>
  {" "} 
  **Note:** During the creation or modification of the certificate templates, you
  will get two default Masteriyo Gutenberg blocks for dynamically pulling the values.
  **Student Name:** The student's name is automatically generated on the certificate.
  **Course Title:** The course's title is automatically generated on the certificate.{" "}
</Callout>


![student-name-and-course-title-block](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a5ab5a26-bda7-43c9-9d79-be5ea13d794e)

#### Use Custom Fonts on Certificate

By default, Masteriyo will have multiple fonts that you can use to customize the certificate. To change the fonts, click on the block and you’ll see **Typography > Font** on the left. From the dropdown, you can choose any fonts you wish.   

If you don’t find the font of your choise, you can also use the custom font. For that, follow the steps below:  
  1. Navigate to **Masteriyo > Certificate**.  
  2. Click on the setting icon on the top right corner

![navigate-to-certificate-settings](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/33b90a33-9efd-41cb-903f-d2cb636eca24)

Now, you will see multiple certificate settings:  

  - **Install Certificate Fonts:** It lets you install additional fonts that you can use for certificate  

  - **Install Custom Fonts:** It lets you upload and use custom fonts that are not available with the plugin. Click the Upload button to upload the zip file of custom fonts.   

![upload-custom-fonts](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d30177da-2be7-4435-a892-79fb69f014c2)

3. Click on **Save Setting** and go back to certificate builder.   

You can see the cutom fonts you just uploaded  under **Typography > Fonts**. Select to use on your certificate.

![custom-fonts-available-in-editor](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/efef1fa0-1d52-40c3-b57d-57ad5290c1d1)

### Add Certificate to Course  

Once you create the **Certificate template**, you will need to assign that template to your specific courses. Follow the instruction below to assign Certificates on courses.

1. Go to your **Dashboard** and navigate **Masteriyo > Courses**
2. **Select** and **Edit** the course on which you want to add a Certificate
3. Navigate **Settings > Certificate**
4. Click on the toggle button to activate the Certificate
5. Select the Certificate for the Course
6. Click on the **Update**

![assign certificate to the courses-masteriyo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24367265/193017309-05112f5a-755a-43f5-a117-43b08d28111b.png)

### Send Certificate via email after Course Completion

![attach-certificate-to-email](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/def6b2c1-8303-4826-b33b-72b6c0bfdd02)


Enabling this option will send the certificate directly to the users email after the course is completed.

### Allows to Share Certificate of Your Course  

To let users share certificates of the course, you can enable Share Certificate through Course **Settings > Certificate** and update the course. 

![enable-share-certificate](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18525d77-ebda-4efd-8cec-f0a19f60c1b3)


### QR Verification for Certificates

You can create a QR verification for the certificates you have created. For this, follow the steps below:

- Go to **Dashboard > Certificate > Select the required Certificate** for editing.
- You can find places on the Cetificate where you can add new blocks. Click on '+'.
- Search for QR and click on QR Code.

![add-qr-in-certificate](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/1f2693cc-332e-48a2-9416-75b0069e50bf)

Now, once the course is completed, the users can download their certificates in which the QR is available.

![download-certificate](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/9d08c93b-851a-4e14-b21c-561d8c9d80ac)

The certificate with QR might look similaar to the image below that varies depending on your styling or template used:

![QR-on-certificate](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/5d9ca442-e111-4f77-9634-40c74cc68ada)
