500-settings/100-course-settings.mdx, before:

---
title: Course Settings
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Masteriyo > Settings > Course Page
---

<Callout>
  {" "}  
Location: Masteriyo > Settings > Course Page
</Callout>

## Course Page

You get multiple customization options for your course page from here:

![course-page-display-settings](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae0c033c-2ee8-4157-b866-acd5aef2ad52)

### Display
Control how courses are listed on your courses page:

- **Courses Per Page** - Set the number of courses to show on a page.
- **View Mode** - Choose between Grid and List view
- **Courses Per Row** - Set the number of courses to appear on a row.
- **Sort Course** - Choose to sort courses as per Date or Title and Ascending or Descending.

### Show/Hide Components
Toggle visibility for specific course elements (e.g., ratings, enrollment numbers, difficulty level, or categories)

### Template

#### Choose Layout
You can select different layouts for the Course Archive page from this option. Select a pre-designed template from the dropdown menu. Changes apply instantly to your live course page.

#### Enable Custom Template
You can create an Elementor Template and use it in the course archive page or use the default Masteriyo course archive page template as per your needs. To enable the custom template, select the source of the template from **Template From** and select the template from the next option.

![enable-custom-template](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/68700217-a5cf-42d7-8c81-3c78a8b8ebcd) 

### Filters and Sorting
Enhance user experience with dynamic filtering and sorting.

![filter-sorting-option-for-courses](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3c492bb-a2e3-4da7-9dc6-50f45f019340)

- **Enable AJAX Behaviour (PRO)** - Applies filters/sorting without reloading the page. 
- **Enable Course Filter** - This allows users to filter courses based on various parameters.
- **Enable Sorting** - This allows users to sort courses in various orders.
When you enable filter and sorting, users can apply the filter on the course page at the frontend:

![filter-and-sorting-options-at-the-frontend](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d0206c9c-5f24-4765-b857-6ff95ac43b15)


### Styles

![style-settings-for-courses](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/44da31fa-a773-42b8-b179-674982267237)

You can customize the various design aspects of the course page from here. You can set button font size, radius, title font size, and course description display side.

The changes you made in the settings are replicated simultaneously on right side where the course page sample is shown.



<Callout>
  {" "}  
  Location: Masteriyo > Settings > Course Page
</Callout>

Commit message:

Added option to reflect show/hide component in single course page

500-settings/100-course-settings.mdx, after:

---
title: Course Settings
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Masteriyo > Settings > Course Page
---

<Callout>
  {" "}  
Location: Masteriyo > Settings > Course Page
</Callout>

## Course Page

You get multiple customization options for your course page from here:

![course-setting-page](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a999565e-c793-4ab8-a195-1eae6d14a5b6)

### Display
Control how courses are listed on your courses page:

- **Courses Per Page** - Set the number of courses to show on a page.
- **View Mode** - Choose between Grid and List view
- **Courses Per Row** - Set the number of courses to appear on a row.
- **Sort Course** - Choose to sort courses as per Date or Title and Ascending or Descending.

### Show/Hide Components

Since this is the global setting for course page, you can control whether or not to reflect the changes made from here on single course page. To take the control, enable/disable **Reflect on Single Course Page**.  
Now, toggle visibility for specific course elements (e.g., ratings, enrollment numbers, difficulty level, or categories).

### Template

#### Choose Layout
You can select different layouts for the Course Archive page from this option. Select a pre-designed template from the dropdown menu. Changes apply instantly to your live course page.

#### Enable Custom Template
You can create an Elementor Template and use it in the course archive page or use the default Masteriyo course archive page template as per your needs. To enable the custom template, select the source of the template from **Template From** and select the template from the next option.

![enable-custom-template](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/68700217-a5cf-42d7-8c81-3c78a8b8ebcd) 

### Filters and Sorting
Enhance user experience with dynamic filtering and sorting.

![filter-sorting-option-for-courses](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3c492bb-a2e3-4da7-9dc6-50f45f019340)

- **Enable AJAX Behaviour (PRO)** - Applies filters/sorting without reloading the page. 
- **Enable Course Filter** - This allows users to filter courses based on various parameters.
- **Enable Sorting** - This allows users to sort courses in various orders.
When you enable filter and sorting, users can apply the filter on the course page at the frontend:

![filter-and-sorting-options-at-the-frontend](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d0206c9c-5f24-4765-b857-6ff95ac43b15)


### Styles

![style-settings-for-courses](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/44da31fa-a773-42b8-b179-674982267237)

You can customize the various design aspects of the course page from here. You can set button font size, radius, title font size, and course description display side.

The changes you made in the settings are replicated simultaneously on right side where the course page sample is shown.



<Callout>
  {" "}  
  Location: Masteriyo > Settings > Course Page
</Callout>
