250-free-addons/350-group-course.mdx, before:

---
title: Groups
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Groups functionality enables the allocation of courses to a collective audience and facilitates the commercial sale of these educational programs to organizations, as example.
---

Groups add-on enables the allocation of courses to a collective audience and facilitates the commercial sale of these educational programs to organizations. For example, a student can buy a course for a group of 3 and share the course with their two other friends.

## Prerequisites:

- [Masteriyo LMS Free or higher](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/installation).
- [Groups add-on](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/activate-masteriyo-addons)

![Activate Groups Addon](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/enable-groups-addon.png)

## Adding Groups to a Course

To add a new group, go to the **Settings** of your course: **Masteriyo > Course > Settings**.
Now, you can enable **Sell to Groups** and configure group pricing.

![group-details](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/set-group-pricing.png)

Now, click on **Update** to create a group.

## Group settings

Navigate to **Masteriyo > Users > Groups** to manage various options for the group you create.

![group-settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/navigate-to-users-groups.png)

You can find all the groups you created on your website from here. From the settings tab, you can modify the following details:

![Group Settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/group-settings.png)

- **Deactivate Enrollment on Status Change** - Enable this option to automatically deactivate the enrollment status of the members when the group status changes. The group status includes trashed, deleted, or drafted. This also reactivates the enrollment upon restoration.
- **Deactivate Enrollment on Member Change** - Enable this option to deactivate the enrollment status of the member who is removed from the group.
- **Group Buy Button Text** - From here, you can change the text of the button that appears at the checkout page for the group buy. Meanwhile, don't modify the placeholders like `{group_price}`.
- **Group Buy Helper Test** - To let users know more about the group pricing, you can write any message regarding the group buy.

Click on **Save Settings** to experience the changes made in the group.

### Group Pricing Workflow

At the frontend, students can buy the course for groups with similar behaviour as shown below:

![Buy Course for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/buy-group-course.gif)

The user can then view their payment receipt, yet can't access their course until the admin approves the group and publishes it.

![Buy Course for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/user-account-dashboard-after-buying-group-before-approval.gif)

Now, the admin should approve the group so that users can add other members. As an admin, navigate to **Masteriyo > Users > Groups**. Here, you can see all the groups that are in draft. This means users have bought course for the groups, but you need to approve them manually. So, click on the draft group and you'll see the option to edit the order.

![Edit Oder for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/edit-group-order.png)

Next, change the status to completed after verifying the order and click on **Update Order**.

![Complete Order for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/complete-order.png)

User can be notified through email regarding their group enrollment, joining, and publishing. You can customize those emails through **Masteriyo > Settings > Emails**.

![Email regarding Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/email-to-student-regarding-group.png)

At the user's dashboard, they can now refresh to add new members to their group. To add a new member, they can add the email of the person they want to add to the group.

![Add new member to the Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/add-members-to-group.png)

You can also enable multiple currencies in Group Pricing. To do so, you need to enable the **[Multiple Currency addon](https://docs.masteriyo.com/free-addons/multiple-currency)** and configure it.

![Add new member to the Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/toggle-to-enable-multiple-currency-addon.png)

You need to configure the addon by adding a pricing zone through **Masteriyo > Settings > Currencies**.

![Add New Pricing Zone](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/add-new-pricing-zone.png)

After setting up the addon, navigate to the Course Builder of the course where you created the **Group**. Now, toggle **Enable Multiple Currency**.

Here, you’ll see the zone you’ve set up. You can enable whichever zone you want. Again, you have two options for the pricing method:

- Enable price calculation by the exchange rate that you’ve set up.
- **Set prices manually:** It allows you to set Regular, Sale, and Group prices for the course. - To set price manually, you need to add **Regular Price**, **Sale Price**, and the **Group Price**.

![set-group-price-manually-asper-currency](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/enable-multiple-currency-in-group.png)

Users can then pay the amount as per their choice of currency:

![Multiple Currency](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/group-course-with-multiple-currency.png)

Commit message:

Added: Manual group enrollment docs.

250-free-addons/350-group-course.mdx, after:

---
title: Groups
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Groups functionality enables the allocation of courses to a collective audience and facilitates the commercial sale of these educational programs to organizations, as example.
---

Groups add-on enables the allocation of courses to a collective audience and facilitates the commercial sale of these educational programs to organizations. For example, a student can buy a course for a group of 3 and share the course with their two other friends.

## Prerequisites:

- [Masteriyo LMS Free or higher](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/installation).
- [Groups add-on](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/activate-masteriyo-addons)

![Activate Groups Addon](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/enable-groups-addon.png)

## Adding Groups to a Course

To add a new group, go to the **Settings** of your course: **Masteriyo > Course > Settings**.
Now, you can enable **Sell to Groups** and configure group pricing.

![group-details](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/set-group-pricing.png)

Now, click on **Update** to create a group.

### Want to manually enroll group? [Pro]

Check this docs: [Manual group enrollment](https://docs.masteriyo.com/getting-started/premium-addons/manual-enrollment#manual-group-enrollment)

## Group settings

Navigate to **Masteriyo > Users > Groups** to manage various options for the group you create.

![group-settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/navigate-to-users-groups.png)

You can find all the groups you created on your website from here. From the settings tab, you can modify the following details:

![Group Settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/group-settings.png)

- **Deactivate Enrollment on Status Change** - Enable this option to automatically deactivate the enrollment status of the members when the group status changes. The group status includes trashed, deleted, or drafted. This also reactivates the enrollment upon restoration.
- **Deactivate Enrollment on Member Change** - Enable this option to deactivate the enrollment status of the member who is removed from the group.
- **Group Buy Button Text** - From here, you can change the text of the button that appears at the checkout page for the group buy. Meanwhile, don't modify the placeholders like `{group_price}`.
- **Group Buy Helper Test** - To let users know more about the group pricing, you can write any message regarding the group buy.

Click on **Save Settings** to experience the changes made in the group.

### Group Pricing Workflow

At the frontend, students can buy the course for groups with similar behaviour as shown below:

![Buy Course for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/buy-group-course.gif)

The user can then view their payment receipt, yet can't access their course until the admin approves the group and publishes it.

![Buy Course for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/user-account-dashboard-after-buying-group-before-approval.gif)

Now, the admin should approve the group so that users can add other members. As an admin, navigate to **Masteriyo > Users > Groups**. Here, you can see all the groups that are in draft. This means users have bought course for the groups, but you need to approve them manually. So, click on the draft group and you'll see the option to edit the order.

![Edit Oder for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/edit-group-order.png)

Next, change the status to completed after verifying the order and click on **Update Order**.

![Complete Order for Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/complete-order.png)

User can be notified through email regarding their group enrollment, joining, and publishing. You can customize those emails through **Masteriyo > Settings > Emails**.

![Email regarding Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/email-to-student-regarding-group.png)

At the user's dashboard, they can now refresh to add new members to their group. To add a new member, they can add the email of the person they want to add to the group.

![Add new member to the Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/add-members-to-group.png)

You can also enable multiple currencies in Group Pricing. To do so, you need to enable the **[Multiple Currency addon](https://docs.masteriyo.com/free-addons/multiple-currency)** and configure it.

![Add new member to the Group](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/toggle-to-enable-multiple-currency-addon.png)

You need to configure the addon by adding a pricing zone through **Masteriyo > Settings > Currencies**.

![Add New Pricing Zone](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/add-new-pricing-zone.png)

After setting up the addon, navigate to the Course Builder of the course where you created the **Group**. Now, toggle **Enable Multiple Currency**.

Here, you’ll see the zone you’ve set up. You can enable whichever zone you want. Again, you have two options for the pricing method:

- Enable price calculation by the exchange rate that you’ve set up.
- **Set prices manually:** It allows you to set Regular, Sale, and Group prices for the course. - To set price manually, you need to add **Regular Price**, **Sale Price**, and the **Group Price**.

![set-group-price-manually-asper-currency](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/enable-multiple-currency-in-group.png)

Users can then pay the amount as per their choice of currency:

![Multiple Currency](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/group-course/group-course-with-multiple-currency.png)
