200-course-creation/100-complete-course-creation.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: Learn basics of using LMS by Masteriyo. How to install it on your WordPress setup.
---

In this guide, we will walk you through the step-by-step process of how to create and publish a course in Masteriyo plugin.

### Creating a Course

- Navigate to the Dashboard Menu **Masteriyo** -->**Courses** and click **Add New Course**.

![Add New Course](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172151871-c0e0f505-32a3-43de-bc2f-4933d4b71dc6.png)

- A new course builder interface will appear. In the **Course Name**, enter a suitable name for your course.
- Add a short description of the course in the **Course Description** editor. You can also style the description, add links and media in the description editor.

![Course Name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172154409-43e376b7-77e6-4c4d-a829-1690b71fc1c3.png)

- On the right-hand side, enter the main features of the course in the **Course Highlights** box. You can enter the main highlighted features of the course in bullet points. Course highlights will be shown on the course listing page.
- Just below the Course Highlight comes the **Categories**. You can select a category from the dropdown if you already have a category. If not, you can create a new one by clicking on **Add New Category**.
- Click **Add Featured Image** to add an image for the course.

![course-highlights](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172156287-ee9b493d-1c58-4bae-a3e1-6f83ad74e3ce.png)

- Click **Next** button on the top right corner to go to the next interface which is a **Builder** area.

You can simply click the publish button, and it will publish the course but without any content. So let's add some content to the course.

### Adding New Section

Each course can be divided into **sections**. Sections are nothing but a group of **Lessons**. Grouping lessons into different sections is an excellent way to make a course easier to navigate and give your student a quick overview.

- Click **Add New Section** in the builder area.

![add-new-section](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172194619-41e5c004-16d9-47ed-8f67-ccf8f2f25b27.png)

- Give the name to the section in **Section Name** field and Click **Add**.

![section-name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172194764-e3fd714f-697c-4eca-bb7f-c676d77bab87.png)

### Adding New Lesson

Once you add a new section, you will be directed to a new interface where you can add Lessons.

- Click on **Add New Content**, which will present two option **Add New Lesson** and **Add New Quiz**.
- Click on **Add New Lesson**. A new interface for adding lesson will be shown.

![add-new-lesson](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172200821-23f35d25-5ba4-4b33-b11d-dfbf940d3d84.png)

- Give your lesson a name in the **Lesson Name** field.
- Add a short description of the lesson in the **Lesson Description** editor.
- If you like to have a featured image for the lesson then click on **Add Featured Image** and upload the image.

![lesson-name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172200877-c67b3749-0c63-4a09-a7b1-b3363b424781.png)

- Now, if you have a video for the lesson, you can add it. Currently, Masteriyo supports videos from 3 different sources **Youtube**, **Vimeo** and **Self hosted**. If you select Youtube or Vimeo you will be presented with a field to enter the video URL. If you select Self Hosted in Video Source, you can upload video clicking on **Add Video Link**.

![add-video-gif](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172208498-7d2ba027-ad94-46d3-a6b0-24e28fc455b0.gif)

- Once all the details are filled. Cick on **Add New Lesson**
- Well done, you have successfully published your first Lesson. Now follow the exact same steps to add other lessons.
- Once complete, click on **Publish** button in the top right corner to publish the course.

![publish-lesson](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172205831-e3e95f59-133b-4de1-bec7-5d9361d879ff.png)

Commit message:

Add title for complete course creation

200-course-creation/100-complete-course-creation.mdx, after:

---
title: Complete Course Creation
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: A quick guide on how to create a course with sections and lessons.
---

In this guide, we will walk you through the step-by-step process of how to create and publish a course in Masteriyo plugin.

### Creating a Course

- Navigate to the Dashboard Menu **Masteriyo** -->**Courses** and click **Add New Course**.

![Add New Course](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172151871-c0e0f505-32a3-43de-bc2f-4933d4b71dc6.png)

- A new course builder interface will appear. In the **Course Name**, enter a suitable name for your course.
- Add a short description of the course in the **Course Description** editor. You can also style the description, add links and media in the description editor.

![Course Name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172154409-43e376b7-77e6-4c4d-a829-1690b71fc1c3.png)

- On the right-hand side, enter the main features of the course in the **Course Highlights** box. You can enter the main highlighted features of the course in bullet points. Course highlights will be shown on the course listing page.
- Just below the Course Highlight comes the **Categories**. You can select a category from the dropdown if you already have a category. If not, you can create a new one by clicking on **Add New Category**.
- Click **Add Featured Image** to add an image for the course.

![course-highlights](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172156287-ee9b493d-1c58-4bae-a3e1-6f83ad74e3ce.png)

- Click **Next** button on the top right corner to go to the next interface which is a **Builder** area.

You can simply click the publish button, and it will publish the course but without any content. So let's add some content to the course.

### Adding New Section

Each course can be divided into **sections**. Sections are nothing but a group of **Lessons**. Grouping lessons into different sections is an excellent way to make a course easier to navigate and give your student a quick overview.

- Click **Add New Section** in the builder area.

![add-new-section](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172194619-41e5c004-16d9-47ed-8f67-ccf8f2f25b27.png)

- Give the name to the section in **Section Name** field and Click **Add**.

![section-name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172194764-e3fd714f-697c-4eca-bb7f-c676d77bab87.png)

### Adding New Lesson

Once you add a new section, you will be directed to a new interface where you can add Lessons.

- Click on **Add New Content**, which will present two option **Add New Lesson** and **Add New Quiz**.
- Click on **Add New Lesson**. A new interface for adding lesson will be shown.

![add-new-lesson](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172200821-23f35d25-5ba4-4b33-b11d-dfbf940d3d84.png)

- Give your lesson a name in the **Lesson Name** field.
- Add a short description of the lesson in the **Lesson Description** editor.
- If you like to have a featured image for the lesson then click on **Add Featured Image** and upload the image.

![lesson-name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172200877-c67b3749-0c63-4a09-a7b1-b3363b424781.png)

- Now, if you have a video for the lesson, you can add it. Currently, Masteriyo supports videos from 3 different sources **Youtube**, **Vimeo** and **Self hosted**. If you select Youtube or Vimeo you will be presented with a field to enter the video URL. If you select Self Hosted in Video Source, you can upload video clicking on **Add Video Link**.

![add-video-gif](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172208498-7d2ba027-ad94-46d3-a6b0-24e28fc455b0.gif)

- Once all the details are filled. Cick on **Add New Lesson**
- Well done, you have successfully published your first Lesson. Now follow the exact same steps to add other lessons.
- Once complete, click on **Publish** button in the top right corner to publish the course.

![publish-lesson](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3048991/172205831-e3e95f59-133b-4de1-bec7-5d9361d879ff.png)
