200-course-creation/250-advanced-quiz-creation.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Quiz Creation
excerpt: A quick guide on how to create an advanced quiz.
---

<Callout>
  {" "}
  **Note:** This instruction is for creating a Quiz for your course. If you missed
  the documentation for creating a complete course, please review it here: [https://docs.masteriyo.com/course-creation/complete-course-creation](https://docs.masteriyo.com/course-creation/complete-course-creation).
</Callout>

# How to create a Quiz?

With Masteriyo, you can create advanced quizzes as per your needs. There is a component in the course section called quiz where you can add questions and allow users to answer them. You can assign points to these questions, set a pass mark and check the student's progress.

![Add New Quiz](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/create-quiz-in-masteriyo-lms.png)

- Navigate to the course builder of the course where you want to create a quiz. Now, click on **Add New Content**.
- Select content type as **Quiz**. A new interface for adding a quiz will be shown.

![Quiz Builder - Name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75772539/220802418-09960294-52f8-4f67-9e57-4221254dce5c.png)

- Give a name to the Quiz.
- Click on **Add New Quiz**.

Now, click on **Add New Question** and you'll get two options:

![add-new-question-or-add-from-question-bank](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8457b3cd-1aae-4727-ac98-6f33d271998e)

## Add from Question Bank (New)

The question bank is a centralized repository for Masteriyo LMS, where you can find existing questions created with your LMS. Click on this option, and a new interface will pop up showing you all the existing questions. From here, you can choose the existing quiz's questions and add them to your course without recreating.

You can choose your preferred action:

**Add to Quiz:** Adds the question directly (removes it from the bank).
**Duplicate and Add to Quiz:** Creates a copy and adds it to your quiz while keeping the original in the bank.

![select-quiz-and-or-duplicate](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/add-duplicate-question.png)

Now, if you want to reuse any of those, you can select and click on **Add Selected** and then hit the **Update** button. It will now automatically add those questions to your quiz.

![import-question-from-question-bank](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dfdcee5a-6450-4687-aab5-d8d26679291f)

[Watch video tutorial on Question Bank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xco4aZ2akrE)

## Add New Question

If you want to add a new question, you must add questions and a description for the quiz. If you would like to do this, please follow the steps below.

- Click on the **Add New Question** and you'll see **Untitled Question**. Again, click on the untitled question, and you can now add your question and configure other settings.
- On the Question Name, write your question.

![create-quiz-with-masteriyo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc672787-f1df-4341-9eca-8170207b404a)

Now, you can see the **Question Type** dropdown.

## Question Types

![Question Type - Pro](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75772539/221499600-78d1d074-3cf7-4b58-b12c-4a595b8816e2.png)

### True False

Write the questions that have a true or false answer.

### Single Choice

![quiz-question-type-single-choice](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/441f8e99-0495-4318-9b9b-589d27731fe8)

If you have questions where the learners have to select only one question out of the available options, you need to add this question type. Click on 'Add new answer' to add a new option.

### MultiChoice

![quiz-question-type-multiple-choice](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8916b05d-3264-44cd-b1e8-8097546cfc77)

This is similar to the single-choice questions, but here the learners can select more than one answer. Click on 'Add new answer' to add a new option.

### Text Answer [Pro]

![Text Answer](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c166a17-dfe8-4ae0-92eb-64ff4b25e14c)

This question type lets you create a question that requires explanatory text answers. It lets the learners describe the answer in their own words. You can set the maximum length for the text.

### Match the following [Pro]

![match-the-following](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/5c3be922-c38f-4e10-80bc-25fbe732bf33)

This is a question type where the answers are to be matched with the prompts. You can select whether you are matching text to text, image to text or image to image.

        When you select any options related to image, you can upload your image from the uploader button.

![matchthefollowing-image-upload](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/bf88b71a-a871-48ca-ac6b-2ae2b5945a43)

While submitting the quiz, the learners should select the matching answers for the respective prompts from the drop-down menu. You can see it in the image below.

![matchthefollowingfrontend](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/df3e43f0-c995-4235-82d0-11a4cbf4e87d)

### Video [Pro]

![video-sources](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/05595b0c-bf55-4d65-afe5-48fc0193b60d)

Here, you can upload videos while creating courses and give questions related to that videos. There are four video sources you can choose from. They are:

- Self-Hosted
- Youtube
- Vimeo
- External URL

In the Self-Hosted option, you will need to upload a video from the local source. Similarly, if you choose YouTube or Vimeo, you can add YouTube or Vimeo video links. The last one is the external URL. You can add the URL of the place where you have hosted your own video.

Now, while submitting the quiz, the learners can watch the video and write the answer to the question asked.

![video-frontend](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/a2671151-6736-427e-878d-418655e4d48d)

### Audio [Pro]

![audio](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/7e2e1fb2-4ff2-405f-a379-93fce8668369)

Just like the video questions, you can also add an audio question to your quiz. For this, choose the question type 'Audio'. Now, you will need to upload audio by clicking 'Drop documents or click here to upload'. Now, write the question and click on update.

Now, while submitting the form, the learners can listen to the audio and write the required answers.

![audiofrontend](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/9deed694-9515-4f3a-8c18-dc4058909480)

### Sortable [Pro]

![sortable](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/18fc9a2f-9f3d-43fb-a758-c2c6d4c147ca)

In this type of question, the learners will have to sort the given answers as per the question. As a quiz maker, you can add options by clicking the 'Add new answer' button.

### Fill in the blanks [Pro]

![fillintheblanks](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/ed9df384-dd6d-4e79-9c95-680e288c9c82)

You can use this if you want to add a question where the learners will have to fill in the blanks with a correct answer.

<Callout>
  &#123;" "&#125; Format: This is a hint for the &#123;&#123; fill in the blanks
  &#125;&#125; question. Here, the text between the double curly braces is the
  answer that the learners will have to write. &#123;" "&#125;
</Callout>

## Answer Explanation

![quiz-answer-explanation](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b4982ef-30d4-400b-9b64-87ff685d0a98)

This option lets the instructor add an explanation to the correct answer. The students will be able to see this once they submit the answers.

## Quiz Settings

On the last tab of the Quiz Editor screen, you will see the Settings specifically for the quiz you have just created. This Setting consists of the following.

### General

![Quiz General Settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/quiz-general-settings.png)

- **Full Points**: You can set the full points for the quiz you have created as per the marks for each question.
- **Auto Calculate**: This button automatically calculates point values based on the number of questions.
- **Pass Points**: Set the minimum points required for the students to pass this quiz. You can choose to display scores as either points or percentages using the toggle buttons.
- **Duration**: Set the time duration for which the quiz is active. Students will have to complete the quiz within this time frame.
- **Attempts Allowed**: You can set whether to put a limit on the attempts allowed for the quiz to be solved or not.
- **Number of Attempts**: When "Limit" is selected, this field specifies the maximum number of attempts allowed.

### Display

![Display Settings for Quiz](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/question-per-page.png)

- **Questions Per Page**: You can choose two options for this. Either choose to inherit the global settings for the number of questions to be displayed in each page or choose a custom number for separate quizzes.
  - The maximum limit for the questions per page is 999. 
- **Randomize Questions**: When enabled, presents questions in random order to each student. (Toggle to enable/disable).
- **Show Result**: When enabled, displays quiz results to students immediately after completion. (Toggle to enable/disable).

## Additional Resources

- [Import or Export Individual Quizzes](https://docs.masteriyo.com/faqs/import-and-export-individual-quizzes)

Commit message:

Added info about reveal mode and updated image

200-course-creation/250-advanced-quiz-creation.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Quiz Creation
excerpt: A quick guide on how to create an advanced quiz.
---

<Callout>
  {" "}
  **Note:** This instruction is for creating a Quiz for your course. If you missed
  the documentation for creating a complete course, please review it here: [https://docs.masteriyo.com/course-creation/complete-course-creation](https://docs.masteriyo.com/course-creation/complete-course-creation).
</Callout>

# How to create a Quiz?

With Masteriyo, you can create advanced quizzes as per your needs. There is a component in the course section called quiz where you can add questions and allow users to answer them. You can assign points to these questions, set a pass mark and check the student's progress.

![Add New Quiz](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/create-quiz-in-masteriyo-lms.png)

- Navigate to the course builder of the course where you want to create a quiz. Now, click on **Add New Content**.
- Select content type as **Quiz**. A new interface for adding a quiz will be shown.

![Quiz Builder - Name](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75772539/220802418-09960294-52f8-4f67-9e57-4221254dce5c.png)

- Give a name to the Quiz.
- Click on **Add New Quiz**.

Now, click on **Add New Question** and you'll get two options:

![add-new-question-or-add-from-question-bank](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8457b3cd-1aae-4727-ac98-6f33d271998e)

## Add from Question Bank (New)

The question bank is a centralized repository for Masteriyo LMS, where you can find existing questions created with your LMS. Click on this option, and a new interface will pop up showing you all the existing questions. From here, you can choose the existing quiz's questions and add them to your course without recreating.

You can choose your preferred action:

**Add to Quiz:** Adds the question directly (removes it from the bank).
**Duplicate and Add to Quiz:** Creates a copy and adds it to your quiz while keeping the original in the bank.

![select-quiz-and-or-duplicate](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/add-duplicate-question.png)

Now, if you want to reuse any of those, you can select and click on **Add Selected** and then hit the **Update** button. It will now automatically add those questions to your quiz.

![import-question-from-question-bank](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dfdcee5a-6450-4687-aab5-d8d26679291f)

[Watch video tutorial on Question Bank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xco4aZ2akrE)

## Add New Question

If you want to add a new question, you must add questions and a description for the quiz. If you would like to do this, please follow the steps below.

- Click on the **Add New Question** and you'll see **Untitled Question**. Again, click on the untitled question, and you can now add your question and configure other settings.
- On the Question Name, write your question.

![create-quiz-with-masteriyo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc672787-f1df-4341-9eca-8170207b404a)

Now, you can see the **Question Type** dropdown.

## Question Types

![Question Type - Pro](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75772539/221499600-78d1d074-3cf7-4b58-b12c-4a595b8816e2.png)

### True False

Write the questions that have a true or false answer.

### Single Choice

![quiz-question-type-single-choice](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/441f8e99-0495-4318-9b9b-589d27731fe8)

If you have questions where the learners have to select only one question out of the available options, you need to add this question type. Click on 'Add new answer' to add a new option.

### MultiChoice

![quiz-question-type-multiple-choice](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8916b05d-3264-44cd-b1e8-8097546cfc77)

This is similar to the single-choice questions, but here the learners can select more than one answer. Click on 'Add new answer' to add a new option.

### Text Answer [Pro]

![Text Answer](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c166a17-dfe8-4ae0-92eb-64ff4b25e14c)

This question type lets you create a question that requires explanatory text answers. It lets the learners describe the answer in their own words. You can set the maximum length for the text.

### Match the following [Pro]

![match-the-following](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/5c3be922-c38f-4e10-80bc-25fbe732bf33)

This is a question type where the answers are to be matched with the prompts. You can select whether you are matching text to text, image to text or image to image.

        When you select any options related to image, you can upload your image from the uploader button.

![matchthefollowing-image-upload](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/bf88b71a-a871-48ca-ac6b-2ae2b5945a43)

While submitting the quiz, the learners should select the matching answers for the respective prompts from the drop-down menu. You can see it in the image below.

![matchthefollowingfrontend](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/df3e43f0-c995-4235-82d0-11a4cbf4e87d)

### Video [Pro]

![video-sources](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/05595b0c-bf55-4d65-afe5-48fc0193b60d)

Here, you can upload videos while creating courses and give questions related to that videos. There are four video sources you can choose from. They are:

- Self-Hosted
- Youtube
- Vimeo
- External URL

In the Self-Hosted option, you will need to upload a video from the local source. Similarly, if you choose YouTube or Vimeo, you can add YouTube or Vimeo video links. The last one is the external URL. You can add the URL of the place where you have hosted your own video.

Now, while submitting the quiz, the learners can watch the video and write the answer to the question asked.

![video-frontend](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/a2671151-6736-427e-878d-418655e4d48d)

### Audio [Pro]

![audio](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/7e2e1fb2-4ff2-405f-a379-93fce8668369)

Just like the video questions, you can also add an audio question to your quiz. For this, choose the question type 'Audio'. Now, you will need to upload audio by clicking 'Drop documents or click here to upload'. Now, write the question and click on update.

Now, while submitting the form, the learners can listen to the audio and write the required answers.

![audiofrontend](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/9deed694-9515-4f3a-8c18-dc4058909480)

### Sortable [Pro]

![sortable](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/18fc9a2f-9f3d-43fb-a758-c2c6d4c147ca)

In this type of question, the learners will have to sort the given answers as per the question. As a quiz maker, you can add options by clicking the 'Add new answer' button.

### Fill in the blanks [Pro]

![fillintheblanks](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/ed9df384-dd6d-4e79-9c95-680e288c9c82)

You can use this if you want to add a question where the learners will have to fill in the blanks with a correct answer.

<Callout>
  &#123;" "&#125; Format: This is a hint for the &#123;&#123; fill in the blanks
  &#125;&#125; question. Here, the text between the double curly braces is the
  answer that the learners will have to write. &#123;" "&#125;
</Callout>

## Answer Explanation

![quiz-answer-explanation](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b4982ef-30d4-400b-9b64-87ff685d0a98)

This option lets the instructor add an explanation to the correct answer. The students will be able to see this once they submit the answers.

## Quiz Settings

On the last tab of the Quiz Editor screen, you will see the Settings specifically for the quiz you have just created. This Setting consists of the following.

### General

![Quiz General Settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/quiz-general-settings-interface.png)

- **Full Points**: You can set the full points for the quiz you have created based on the marks for each question.
- **Auto Calculate**: This button automatically calculates point values based on the number of questions.
- **Pass Points**: Set the minimum points required for the students to pass this quiz. You can choose to display scores as either points or percentages using the toggle buttons.
- **Duration**: Set the time duration for which the quiz is active. Students will have to complete the quiz within this time frame.
- **Enable Reveal Mode**: Toggle to enable **reveal mode** for the quiz so that it automatically sets the number of attempts to one. This mode limits students to one quiz attempt and shows them all correct answers after submission.
- **Attempts Allowed**: You can set whether to put a limit on the attempts allowed for the quiz to be solved or not.
- **Number of Attempts**: When "Limit" is selected, this field specifies the maximum number of attempts allowed.

### Display

![Display Settings for Quiz](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/main/assets/images/advanced-quiz-creation/question-per-page.png)

- **Questions Per Page**: You can choose two options for this. Either choose to inherit the global settings for the number of questions to be displayed in each page or choose a custom number for separate quizzes.
  - The maximum limit for the questions per page is 999. 
- **Randomize Questions**: When enabled, presents questions in random order to each student. (Toggle to enable/disable).
- **Show Result**: When enabled, displays quiz results to students immediately after completion. (Toggle to enable/disable).

## Additional Resources

- [Import or Export Individual Quizzes](https://docs.masteriyo.com/faqs/import-and-export-individual-quizzes)
