200-course-creation/305-course-analytics.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Analytics for Courses
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: This section helps the instructor to analyze various aspects of the courses they create.
---

## Advanced Analytics for Courses

![masteriyo-courses-analytics](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/eccf5458-fc6f-416a-a0f6-92162dbf9674)

Masteriyo provides individual course reports. To access a report for each course, including student activity and progress, go to your Dashboard > Masteriyo > Courses. Click the three dots next to a course, then select the "Reports" button. This will show advanced analytics for that course, including sales, enrollment, and student progress. 

![advanced-analytics-dashboard](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/69238aad-119a-4086-a757-7781c6ea963a)

### Student's Progress

To check the progress of the enrolled students, scroll to the Enrolled Students section. Here, you will find the list of the students enrolled in the respective course. You can click the **Progress** button for each student to check and modify their progress.

![enrolled-students-progress](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/8ee29ed8-509d-407a-8365-ada797412374)

Commit message:

Added mark as complete feature

200-course-creation/305-course-analytics.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Analytics for Courses
show_child_cards: true
excerpt: This section helps the instructor to analyze various aspects of the courses they create.
---

## Advanced Analytics for Courses

Masteriyo provides individual course reports. To access a report for each course, including student activity and progress, go to your **Dashboard > Masteriyo > Courses**. Click the three dots next to a course, then select the **"Reports"** button. 

![masteriyo-courses-analytics](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/eccf5458-fc6f-416a-a0f6-92162dbf9674)

This will show advanced analytics for that course, including sales, enrollment, and student progress.   

![advanced-analytics-dashboard](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/69238aad-119a-4086-a757-7781c6ea963a)

### Student's Progress

To check the progress of the enrolled students, scroll to the Enrolled Students section. Here, you will find the list of the students enrolled in the respective course. You can click the **Progress** button for each student to check and modify their progress.

![enrolled-students-progress](https://github.com/Masteriyo/masteriyo-docs/assets/75772539/8ee29ed8-509d-407a-8365-ada797412374)  


#### Mark as Complete [Pro]
Administrators can override user progress statuses through two methods:  

![mark-as-complete-for-course](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39d70ff5-bc11-477e-9f55-b4e4313cb14e)

  - **Mark All As Complete:** Mark an entire course as completed for specific users.    
  - **Mark as Complete:** Manually mark individual course components (lessons, quizzes, assignments, etc.) as completed.  
This feature is ideal for correcting progress tracking errors or accommodating exceptional circumstances.  

#### Reset Progress [Pro]
This functionality enables administrators to:  
  - Reset user progress for entire courses through the Reset Progress button. It removes all completion records, quiz attempts, and tracked metrics associated with the selected course.  

![reset-progress-for-course](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9705c0ab-2485-4ac6-ad06-467c720812ba)

**Note:** This action is irreversible. Users will need to restart progress from the beginning.
